protesters in Israel have returned to
the streets to demand their government
to make a deal to free the remaining
hostages being held by Hamas it's the
second night of Nationwide
demonstrations after the bodies of six
captives were recovered from Gaza prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu asked for
forgiveness for failing to secure their
release though he insisted he would
press Israel's military campaign against
Hamas and keep control of strategic
territory within Gaza MERS also attended
a funeral for one of the
hostages thousands line the streets of
Jerusalem to pay their final respects to
hsch Goldberg Poland the 23-year-old is
the latest hostage kidnapped by Hamas on
October the 7th to be laid to rest in
[Music]
Israel H we failed you we all failed you
for 23 years I was is privileged to have
the most stunning honor to be hersh's
Mama I'll take it and say thank you I
just wish it had been for
longer the Israeli American was
kidnapped at a music festival during the
October 7th Hamas Terror attacks the
Israeli military says his body was among
six recovered in a tunnel in Gaza over
the weekend shortly after they were
killed by
Hamas the prime minister apologized for
their
debts I told the
families and I repeat it tonight
too I ask for your
forgiveness for not bringing them back
alive we were close but we didn't
succeed he added that no one is more
committed to their release than he is
and called critic ISM of his approach to
a ceasefire deal
[Music]
shameful the deaths of the hostages have
sparked two days of mass protests across
Israel the demonstrators are calling for
an immediate deal with Hamas to bring
the remaining hostages
home the rallies have blocked many major
roads in and around Tel Aviv snarling
traffic for hours
there have also been several clashes
with
[Applause]
police and this is the only way they can
hear us if we stop everything that's the
problem with the Israeli government they
won't listen they're not thinking about
the hostages they only thinking about
the government
Survival on Monday the demonstrators
were joined by thousands of striking
workers who disrupted services at
hospitals schools as well as flights at
Israel's main airport union leaders
eventually called off the strike when a
court said they had not given enough
notice it also called the work stoppage
politically
motivated let's get more from journalist
balig sadine in Tel Aviv welcome back
balig um we heard the Prime Minister
asking the families of the hostages for
forgiveness but despite the softening of
Mr netanyahu's tone his position appear
appears not to have
changed well uh yes the main goal of
this uh um speech or this press
conference that he gave is not actually
to apologize for the families of the
hostages that were killed yesterday or
actually their buddies recovered
yesterday they were killed last week by
Hamas in the Gaza STP but actually toh
talk about the Philadelphia Corridor and
its importance and why Israel can't
um give up on this Corridor that um
separates the Gaza Strip from the border
with Egypt he said that this carridor
was used by Hamas during the past 20 or
more years to smuggle weapons to smuggle
ammunition and to continue their what he
described their terrorist um attacks
against the Israeli Society in general
and that's why Israel needs to still um
have presid presence in this Corridor
even in the first phase of the possible
deal or the theoretical deal that
everyone is talking about even in the
first 42 days because he said that in
case Israel withdraws from this
Philadelphia Corridor then the
Diplomatic pressure not the Tactical
issue here is the problem in which he
says that the US and also the inter
International Community in general will
put a lot of pressure on Israel not to
go back and to stop the war um entirely
and where are ceasefire um where are
hostage
negotiations and negotiations about a
ceasefire where are they at at the
moment well today it has been reported
that the head of the Mad DEA came back
from Qatar after holding talks with the
qataris and just a few moments ago the
Qatari prime minister said that he
talked to the National Security adviser
of the US Jake solivan about the uh
recent talks and the possibility of
reaching a deal we know also that the US
President Joe Biden with his vice
president cin Harris alongside the other
members of the team held a meeting in
The Situation Room about this specific
issue as well that's after the killing
of these six Israeli hostages including
one American here that we just have seen
his funeral in the report so uh the
talks are still continuing but
apparently uh they are reaching a
Deadlock after all because the Israeli
Prime Minister doesn't want to give up
on the phia corridor and Hamas doesn't
want to give up on the fact that they
need the Israel troops to leave entirely
the Gaza Strip so we both have or both
of the parties have uh very harsh um
positions on their demands and um
nothing that could we that we can talk
about in the near future that can change
this uh US President Joe Biden was asked
today whether Benjamin Netanyahu was
doing enough to achieve a hostage deal
his answer was a simple no which sounds
like a rebuke to the Israeli Prime
Minister exactly that the families of
the hostages Forum said that if we were
seeking more evidence that Netanyahu is
the one that is jeopardizing a deal we
are having it right now from the US
president and by the way some people are
saying that he didn't exactly say that
Netanyahu is not doing enough he was
asked two questions and it's not clear
whether they know what toward the first
question or for the second part of that
question but in any way Nat was asked
about this and he decided not to talk
about it also the US president after the
meeting in the situation room also chose
not to talk about the netanyahu's
comments and address today so we're
seeing that there is a huge difference
between the positions of the US
Administration and the Israeli Prime
Minister specifically about this um
concession that Netanyahu is asked to
give about the Philadelphia Corridor
apparently both here are seeking also
some political um interest because after
all the US president Al is facing um
election in for his party in November
and wants to see a ceasefire done and
hostage deal done so we're saying that
the um Israelis prime minister way and
the US president way are not meeting at
this point and maybe this will even
increase in the coming days and what
about the uh the Nationwide general
strike that was called today calling on
the government to make a deal for the
release of hostages that strike's now
been called off but the protests are
continuing just give us a quick timeline
of what's been
happening yes the protest continues and
they are very intense I I don't think
that we have seen such a thing for a
long long time because um 13 people were
arrested in um Jerusalem up until now uh
and also in uh the city of T Aviv where
I am right now some people were arrested
lots of clashes between the protesters
and the isra police some of them even
went um down toward the highway the Aon
Highway that is the center of T Aviv
Main Highway and closed de fire was
burned there so we're seeing that even
they have got closer to the leud
headquarters which is the party of the
Prime Minister and also trying to reach
his um residence in the uh um city of
Jerusalem so lots of Rage lots of uh
anger toward the Prime Minister but I
just need to mention here that according
to according to a recent poll that was
um taken yesterday morning so exactly
after the news about the hostages uh
most of Israelis said that they are not
willing or the government should not be
willing to um give concessions on the
Philadelphia Corridor even though that
means that uh a hostage deal won't be
sealed which means that the at least now
Israeli government's position is aligned
with the Public's position on this topic
as well well yel aronov is an expert on
Israeli politics and professor of
political science at Michigan State
University in the United States she
joins us from the state capital at
laning welcome to DW Professor um let's
start with today's speech from Benjamin
Netanyahu we heard a clip there him
asking for forgiveness
before going on to effectively double
down on his position there's no changing
his mind is
there uh no uh I tragically not I think
for both the Hamas leaders in war and
for Netanyahu they put their own uh
political survival and uh and so forth
above uh the welfare of both uh
Palestinians and Israelis and of course
while the hostages were killed uh by
Hamas who had taken them hostage 11
months mons ago it's certainly the case
that Netanyahu has never put uh um
getting the hostages home and getting to
a ceas fire as the first priority um and
he hasn't done so for the last 11 months
I don't think it is a very sincere
apology and many Israelis don't see it
as such um about 70% of Israelis
throughout the many months have wanted
uh him to immediately resign and want
him uh to have new elections even before
uh this um they held him of course Hamas
is responsible for the massacres and The
Taking of hostages that took place on
October 7th but netan was held
responsible for not doing enough um to
uh be able to deter and prevent that by
distracting the country through trying
to weaken its Supreme Court uh which uh
produced Mass demonstrations for many
months uh before October 7th uh and
since then um you know about a July
survey of Israelis by the Israel
democracy Institute indicates the
majority of Israelis
56% uh would want uh a deal to release
all the hostages and end the war and
about almost 30% would want it for uh
part part of the hostages for a
ceasefire and only 14% didn't know so
for a long time now uh the majority of
Israelis uh and many surveys uh want to
you know put as the first priority
getting the hostages home and getting to
a deal um of course that would also end
the suffering of so many Palestinians uh
with with um yeah so uh I think uh he
just wants to stay out of jail since
he's been incriminated and stay in power
um and uh some of his right-wing
Coalition uh extreme right uh members of
the Coalition uh want the war to
continue and uh don't want to withdraw
from the Gaza Strip obviously um
representatives of the Israeli
government uh would take a somewhat
different line uh to the one that that
you're taking there but your point is
made we'll we'll move on I'm going to
play you another clip from Mr
netanyahu's earlier speech laying out
when he said this war would end I would
Define the end of the war in
Gaza in Gaza when Hamas no longer rules
Gaza we throw them
out I would Define the end of the war in
uh World War II when the Nazis no longer
rule Germany to do that you you need to
have a military Victory and you have to
have also the political Victory to
destroy their
governance y aronov um where is the
Israeli public on the way that Mr
Netanyahu is Prosecuting this
war well of course it would uh many
Israelis and many people around the
world could understand um that when
there's organization like Hamas that
officially wants to destroy the country
and that um you know massacred hundreds
of civilians on October 7th and says
they want to have many more October 7ths
um that you wouldn't that you would want
to uh not have Hamas uh rule uh the
territory next to you and of course you
know uh um hopefully there'll be a
Palestinian State alongside Israel in
the future so this is certainly an
understandable goal but certainly as um
you know has been the experience of many
countries as well uh since World War II
and his analogy um that you know and
this is a you know a Palestinians you
know strive for a nation um and
self-determination as Israelis have uh
that you won't be able to successfully
just get rid of all Hamas and so forth
and therefore you do need to yeah Ju
Just on on that the the the start of
your answer there seemed you you seem to
be going to I didn't quite get an answer
to my question um where is the Israeli
public on the way this war is being
prosecuted by this government you seem
to be hinting that they are behind the
prime
minister no I no I'm sorry if there was
any misunderstanding I think they very
much want to prioritize and for many
months um getting to a ceasefire and
getting to the hostages back as opposed
to complete Victory and that's not only
where the Israeli public has been that's
many me that is where many in the
defense establishment have been uh for
many for also in this summer in terms of
uh trying to push Netanyahu to get to a
deal um and even though he has uh
understandable concerns about the border
between Gaza and Egypt where there are
so many tunnels where they've been
rearmed and got gotten weapons in the
past the military establishment itself
is saying um that you know in the first
state Israel could go back if if it were
going to be used in any uh a way but
also more importantly um that there
could be some kind of uh International
force or Regional force uh including uh
different countries that Israel might
agree on that could uh be at the border
um so again it's not that it's not an
under not it's an understandable concern
but most of the Israeli public has been
solidly behind prioritizing as the
number one issue getting to a hostage
deal and to there thereby a ceasefire
and and now we have about uh 600,000
Israelis demonstrating that would be U
the equivalent to I think 6 million
Germans and uh over 15 million or 20
million Americans demonstrating uh that
they want uh to prioritize as the number
one issue bringing the hostages home and
uh therefore at least having a ceasefire
or end of the war and so he's not in
line with the majority of the Israeli
public and and talking about the the
Philadelphia uh Corridor there as the
Prime Minister um did when Israel we we
can see now why both sides uh see that
as being so important whether you're
you're smuggling uh trying to smuggle um
uh people or explosives into the
territory or indeed trying to secure uh
that particular particular border when
Israel seized control uh of the
Philadelphia corridor from Egypt Egypt
warned then that it was ready to respond
um Why didn't
it why didn't Egypt respond I mean I
think that it's um it too is trying to
um get to and facilitate and mediate uh
um and negotiate a deal uh between
Israel and Hamas and so that's been I
think its priority um I also think the
Egyptian government of course has um
itself had designated Hamas a terrorist
organization not it has done so um
several before because they see it as
affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood
that's a threat to their own government
so they certainly have mixed feelings
about Hamas but um as uh their public
and of course we all uh care deeply
about um the deaths and suffering uh and
displacement in Gaza so I think that
they're concerned about that as well
um and therefore you know want to be
able to negotiate something by which it
wouldn't be Israel at the border um uh
and they can get a deal and so to some
extent they've pushed for that um and
you know there are probably people on
the ground that get bribes you know and
so forth at the border for uh for the
things that go back and forth through it
just a a final word on where um Israel
SL Netanyahu is in internationally
because Mr Netanyahu does seem more
isolated than ever um US President Joe
Biden was asked today whether the
Israeli Prime Minister was doing enough
to achieve a deal for the hostages his
simple and ambiguous answer was no so is
that the nonchalance of a one-term
president with nothing to lose or has
the White House had it with Benjamin
Netanyahu I mean I think they have um
they're extremely frustrated I think for
good reason um that he's not
prioritizing a deal um I think other
administrations have been frustrated
with Netanyahu as well uh in previous
American
administrations um and he very much I
think is prioritizing staying in power
with his own uh Coalition partners and
the extremist parties in his
Coalition um don't want actually to get
a deal um and are not prioritizing the
hostages and so I can understand why the
American Administration is frustrated
with him as are as I say so many
Israelis with 70% at different times
wanting to him to resign immediately
Aaron David Miller is a Middle East
analyst and a senior fellow at the
carnegi Endowment for International
Peace he joins us from Washington DC
good to have you with us we heard
Netanyahu asking the families of the
hostages for forgiveness but it doesn't
appear he's changed his position on the
Gaza War so where does that leave
ceasefire and hostage neg negotiations
at this
point you know this isn't really a
question of one hand clapping it's two
hands clapping and based on my
experience in Arab Israeli negotiations
they close only when there's sufficient
urgency and the part of the
decision and cruy tragically and sadly
there's insufficient urgency on Net's
part and on the part of yak Sinar the
preeminent Palestinian decision maker
and scone somewhere below ground in a
tunnel and probably by hostages in Rafa
Oran units and two two basic events over
the last 48 hours convince me that
there's no origin number one the willful
execution of six
hostages uh probably 48 hours before the
IDF discovered them and second Benjamin
netanyahu's determination to hold out
for control of the Philadelphia Corridor
even though his own security and Israeli
Defense Forces analysts and commanders
have assured him that there is a way to
secure Israeli interests without a
permanent Israeli pres so yes
Philadelphia Corridor is important but
right now it's the ho hostages that are
acutely uh threatened the Israelis can
always deal with AAS they have to figure
out a way to get the hostages home and
right now neither sinir nor Benjamin
Netanyahu are prepared to make the
compromises and the concessions
that will enable an American mediator to
broker an agreement now you're
mentioning the Philadelphia Corridor
which it seems on the face of it is the
major sticking point right now uh as it
seems in negotiations between Israel and
Hamas it's the space along the Egypt
Gaza border why do you think that
Netanyahu is refusing to budge on that
on uh giving up control of it if it's
not Philadelphia quor would probably be
some something else look Benjamin
netanyahu's entire political world is
driven and Tethered to one overriding
objective which is the maintenance of
Benjamin netan in power he's conflated
the interests of the state of Israel
with his own political interest on trial
for bribery fraud and breach of trust in
Jerusalem district court before three
judges four years in running now he
knows that if he lose his power and
can't find a way somehow to end-run the
indictments or to lay the trial or have
it cancelled he faces either a
conviction possibly or alternatively a
plea bargain to avoid prison that would
mean the end of his political career so
this is the the key to understanding
Benjamin nany's motives it seem to me
and that means keeping a coalition of 64
seats with two extremist ministers who
have threatened to bolt leave the
Coalition should the um prime minister
make any sort of concession on
Philadelphia on the Philadelphia quter
or frankly anything that would leave
Hamas in power in Gaza and the reality
is uh unfortunately Hamas Will Survive
most likely as an Insurgency so right
now it seems to me the US is in a
strategic sort of culde act and there's
no easy or quick way out no you're
saying that Benyamin Netanyahu has no
interest in a deal US President Joe
Biden has said that Netanyahu is not
doing enough to a a hostage deal does
Biden though have more leverage to get
Netanyahu to
act well if you look at the last 11
months the answer to that question would
be no and we have 70 days left before
one of the most consequential elections
in modern American history with Joe
Biden's vice president as the Democratic
nominee and the reality is no political
candidate no Secretary of State no
president and certainly no uh nominee
running for office has any stake right
now in picking a major fight and
confrontation with an Israeli Prime
Minister if to Remember If This Were a
conflict between Israel and Egypt
America's capacity to leverage and
pressure would be greater but it's not
it's a conflict between Israel and an
organization which by Statute we have us
has declared as a foreign terrorist
organization which created a terror
surge on October 7 has abused is holding
and killing hostages including American
hostages so I think
the is much to
minuted Aaron David Miller Senior fellow
at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace we're gonna have to
leave it there thank you so much thanks
for having me